.\" Copyright (c) 2011, Joyent, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, Robert Mustacchi. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License"). You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE. If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH ctf2json 1 "15 Sep 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
ctf2json \- dump CTF type data to JSON

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBctf2json\fR [ \fB-F\fR ] \fB-f\fR \fBfile\fR  [ \fB-f\fR \fBfile\fR ... ] 
   [ \fB-t\fR \fBtype\fR ... ] 

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBctf2json\fR provides a way to export CTF data embedded in binaries and
libraries for types as a JSON object. The utility uses CTF data from the
specified file and determines the set of type definitions necessary to define
each specified type.  Because types often need to be defined in a specific
order, \fBctf2json\fR uses the type ordering information in CTF to emit data in
the proper order.

\fBctf2json\fR writes a JSON payload to standard out. It has the following main
sections:

.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
types - An array of objects describing type information and typedefs.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
metadata - An object that contains various pieces of information about the
generated data.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
functions - if -F was specified, an object that contains function argument and
return type information.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
variables - if -V was specified, an objects that contains variable name and
type information.
.RE

The following is a sample type section:

        [
          { "name": "long", "integer": { "length": 4, "signed": true } },
          { "name": "time_t", "typedef": "long" },
          { "name": "struct timespec", "struct": [
                  { "name": "tv_sec", "type": "time_t" },
                  { "name": "tv_nsec", "type": "long" }
          ] },
          { "name": "timespec_t", "typedef": "struct timespec" }
        ]

The following is a sample functions section:

	[
	  {"name": "ath_hal_malloc", "function": { "return": "void *",
            "arguments": [
              "size_t"
            ] }
          }
        ]

The following is a sample variables section:
	[
		{ "name": "_nl_msg_cat_cntr", "type": "int" },
		{ "name": "_sys_nsig", "type": "const int" },
		{ "name": "_nl_domain_bindings", "type": "int *" }
	]

For a full explanation of the JSON format see the section JSON FORMAT below.

The data model used is based upon the file passed in because the CTF data is
specific to the data model. If the file is a 32-bit executable or shared object,
then a 32-bit data model is assumed. If a 64-bit file is passed in then a 64-bit
data model will be used instead.

.SH OPTIONS

\fBctf2json\fR requires the following arguments:

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use this file as a source for CTF type data.   The first instance of this file
is the "main" CTF object, additional instances specify additional objects, the
CTF information of which is needed to complete the first.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Emit an extra section in the output describing functions defined within the
file, as well as types.  See the JSON FORMAT section for more information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-V\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Emit an extra section in the output describing variables defined within the
file, as well as types.  See the JSON FORMAT section for more information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify a type that should be emitted as JSON data. This option can be specified
multiple times. As a part of specifying -t all the types that are required to
describe the specified type will be emitted.

If -t is not specified, all types will be emitted.
.RE

.SH JSON FORMAT

The current JSON object (version 2) contains a metadata section a types
section, and option functions and variables sections. The metadata section
currently defines five different attributes. The first is
\fBctf2json_version\fR - The version of the JSON file format used by
\fBctf2json\fR. The current version is 1.0. \fBcreated_at\fR is the timestamp
of when the file is being produced. This value is in seconds since 1970.
\fBderived_from\fR is the name of the file that provided the CTF data.
\fBctf_version\fR is the version of the CTF data that we received data from.
\fBrequested_types\fR is an array. Each entry corresponds to a type requested
via the \fB-t\fR option.

The types section consists of an array of objects. Every object has a name
section that describes the either name of a type or names a field inside a
struct. Each object also contains a second key. The second key varies based upon
what that type is.

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBinteger\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An integer is an object with two fields that describe how to represent a value.
\fBlength\fR is the number of bytes needed to represent the value. \fBsigned\fR
is a boolean that says whether the value is a signed integer or not. Example:

{ "name": "unsigned", "integer": { "length": 4, "signed": false } }
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBfloat\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A float represents an IEEE 724 single or double precision value. This is an
object that has one value \fBlength\fR which is the number of bytes needed to
represent the value. Example:

{ "name": "float", "float": { "length": 4 } }
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBtypedef\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This represents a type that is actually a C typedef to another type. Unlike the
others, this is not an object and the value is a string which is the type name
that it maps to. Example:

{ "name": "psinfo_t", "typedef": "struct psinfo" }
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBstruct\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A C struct is represented by an array of objects. The array is ordered based on
the order of the members in the struct. Each entry in the array has two fields.
\fBname\fR is the name of the structure member. \fBtype\fR is the name of the
type of that member. The type is guaranteed to have been enumerated already.
Example:

{ "name": "struct timespec", "struct": [ { "name": "tv_sec", "type":
"time_t" }, { "name": "tv_nsec", "type": "long" } ] },


.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBunion\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A C union is represented by an array of objects. The array is ordered based on
the order of the members in the union. Each entry in the array has two fields.
\fBname\fR is the name of the structure member. \fBtype\fR is the name of the
type of that member. The type is guaranteed to have been enumerated already.
Example:

{ "name": "foo", "union": [{ "name": "a", "type": "uint64_t [256]" }
{ "name": "s", "type": "struct " }] },


.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBenum\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A C enum is represented by an array of objects. The array is ordered based on
the values of the members in the enum. Each entry in the array has two fields.
\fBname\fR is the name of the enum member. \vBalue\fR is the value of that
member.  Example:

{ "name": "foo", "enum": [{ "name": "F_FOO", "value": 0 }, { "name": 
"F_BAR", "value": 1 }] },

.RE

The functions section consists of an array of function objects.  Every object
has a name property with the name of the function, a return property with the type of
the function, and an arguments property which is an array containing the types
of each argument, in argument order.

Note, the type names are being provided by libctf. When dealing with an array it
is always formatted with a space between the type name and the number of
elements. e.g. "int [4]"

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fb0\fr
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
An error occurred or invalid command line option was specified.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
libctf, ctfdump, node-ctype
